it's a sad day the XPS 15 that I loved
so dearly Dell's killing and it's not
the only one too the XPS 17 the 13 the
132 and one all dead because they've got
some brand new laptops right here at CES
2024 here in Vancouver we have the XPS
13 plus which isn't new but it's the 13
now the 14 the 16 but what I want to
show you first because they have somehow
improved a laptop and made it make more
sense in a new gener ation it's the
Alienware M16 over the last while I
haven't been totally sure what Alienware
has been doing cuz they have just been
chasing the maximum performance without
really thinking about can your laptop
fit in your bag but here they have look
at the size difference between the old
M16 and the new one that is the
difference between a fitting in your
backpack or not in a very strange twist
this brand new Alienware M6 16 will
actually be slower than the outgoing
model so this right here gets up to a
4070 whereas the old one got up to a
4090 but what they have done with that
drop in power and thermal requirements
is make just a laptop you actually want
to use there's just so much usability
about this new laptop that just makes so
much sense like look at this right here
on the old one the Palm rest put my
hands here and they're just falling off
of The Edge it is not comfortable to
type for a while even though they have
some of the best switches in the game
whereas Now new one wow look at that my
hands are comfortable or maybe you're
going into a business meeting or
something like that and you don't want
to be all gamified watch this right here
one button there we go stealth mode wow
it almost looks like an old gen XPS look
at that now I did say we have less power
than last gen but that does not mean
this thing is slow by any means we have
a total of 175 wat system power and that
4070 can gobble down a whole 1402 itself
for the CPU we get an Intel Core 9 185h
and we also have quite a decent
selection of iio so on this side right
here we have 2.5 gig networking
headphone microphone combo Jack can't
take that for granted power input here
HDMI 2.1 display port this one right
here uses Optimus to be wired directly
to the GPU Thunderbolt 4 and then two
type A's rate where uh if you plug in a
mouse it'll get in your way that's too
bad and an SD card reader it is the
micro one so that's a little bit smaller
than the last gen but they say this is
the fastest micro SD card reader that
you can put in the laptop so don't
complain too much opening up the new M16
is nice and easy as it was in the past
just a couple Phillips head screws and
you are in and in here we can see that
well uh you had a fair bit less stuff
than the old one so the old one had four
fans seven heat pipes now we are down to
two fans and four heat pipes but they
said these fans are quite a bit larger
which uh yeah the fan is quite a bit
bigger so they now have 94 fan blades
here up from 79 in the old model which
is how they can get away with not quite
as many heat pipes and that is how they
have been able to maintain good thermal
performance in this right here also we
still have excellent upgrade ability so
two sodm right there two ssds right here
your Wi-Fi card there and we have a
90w battery that is hopefully going to
be getting you quite a bit of time away
from the wall there we goh she's all
good just like the display options in
keeping with just kind of giving you
what you want there is only a single
option and it is the best option Quad HD
16x 10 240 HZ that's well exactly what I
want on a gaming display and a laptop
just like I want to tell you about our
sponsor thanks to be quiet for
sponsoring a c s 2024 coverage if you're
shopping for your next PC build or just
new components in general make sure to
check out be quiet their premium
products include PC cases power supplies
Water and Air Cooling and fans for
desktop PCS with roots in Germany
they've been in the industry for more
than 20 years and specialize in making
high quality parts that are nearly
inaudible this year at CES they're
showcasing their new white PC case as
white fans and even white hard drive
cages step into the world of Silent
Computing with be quiet at the link down
below all right it's time to have a nice
look at these new XPS laptops this right
here is the old one it looks still
pretty decent but it was getting a
little bit old in the design department
and Dell have been telling me that these
right here are the most design forward
laptops they have ever made look at this
right here it looks well it looks a lot
like the 13 plus that we had before but
it doesn't have a lot of the drawback so
one of the things right here that I did
not like about the 13 plus put your
hands on here Edge super sharp and your
hands are hanging off of the back 14
though look at
this it's nice and comfy another thing
that's not so great about the 13 plus is
that uh no headphone jack but look at
this right here we've got a headphone
jack and the rest of the I/O is pretty
good too now we no longer have a
fullsize SD card reader but this little
micro SD card reader like the Alienware
they say is a fast as they could get it
Thunderbolt 4 Thunderbolt 4 and
Thunderbolt 4 but very interestingly
even though the I/O appears to be the
same on the 16 in this guy right here is
special well it's only special on the
470 version but this will allow you to
do Nvidia Optimus directly to your
display from this one right here if you
get the 40/50 or the 4060 or the Intel
Ark you will not be getting that that'll
just be Thunderbolt 4 and also the 4070
version of this will come with a vapor
chamber whereas the other ones will be
just coming with heat pipes and that
reduces your total TDP by 10 wats and uh
speaking of that yeah this right here
gets a 4070 in it in this little guy
right here and it isn't even one of
those ply little barely a 4070 ones it
gets 60 watts for the GPU the whole
system can draw up to 80 at a time which
means you should actually be able to
game half decent on this for the CPU we
get up to an Intel Core Ultra 9 185h in
the 16 in the 14 we get up to an Intel
Core Ultra 9 or
165h this guy can also go up to an RTX
4050 for the RTX 4050 in the 14 we get
up to 30 wats on that 30 wats on the CPU
and 47 Watts total which means that even
though it won't be the most powerful I
still think you'll be able to game
pretty good in particular because of the
display all of these get OLED and the 16
and the 14 get up to 90 HZ although it
goes all the way down to 48 if you want
to save some battery life speaking of
displays one of my largest complaints
about the XPS 13 plus was that when you
get the OLED display even though it
looks absolutely beautiful it kills your
battery really really hard and they have
a solution for that now in here we have
what they call a p OLED so instead of
having some nice glass right here on the
front it's actually plastic one little
point of clarification though we won't
have plastic on the screen it will still
be Gorilla Glass just the OLED itself is
bonded to plastic and I don't really
understand why but that allows them to
double the brightness and have the power
consumption that's magic basically but
also that's the kind of magic that I
want to see in my laptop I don't know
why the XPS team didn't give the alien
wear team the memo that I'm going to
take the laptops apart but they were
kind enough to just do it for me so we
can do whatever we want to these
ones oh we dropped it that's too bad
anyway what they are super proud about
is if you look at this fan right here
this right here is the old xps15 fan you
can see not only is the new one larger
but they have these little Tippy tips on
the end which do what why is that good
turbo fication tur turbo
fication sure but seriously though it's
all about surface area in these fans so
we have more blades longer blades we are
going to be able to get a lot more
cooling through these but they haven't
just improved these fans but also how
they work so if we look at the old XPS
15 the intake is all along the bottom
here which has a couple of problems the
main one being if you uh put it on your
lap like this you are blocking the
intake it gets quite hot your Chan of
reproductive success goes down and it's
just a general bad time not so in the
new one so if you look right here it
intakes from the side so even if you
have it on like a blanket or something
like that it might be successful draws
it across all of the components in here
hopefully cooling down your VR Rams
memory all of that stuff and then yeting
it out the back right here while we're
in here we can have a look at the
upgrade ability so we can swap out our
SSD right there and uh that's about it
Dell did you know that someone uh
created a lowprofile
swappable super highpe memory
standard anyway they didn't use that but
they do have super fast Ram in here this
when it's soldered down can go up to
7467 heck yeah I nailed it that's a
strange number and it's also incredibly
high so they presumably are able to do
that because look at the distance
between this core and those RAM chips
that does not have to travel very far to
get you those sort of speeds for the
batteries in the 14 we get a 69 nice. 5w
hour battery in the 16 we get oh dear a
99.5 W hour that is just on the edge of
how large you are able to get into one
of these and they're saying between the
efficiency gains of the new Intel Core
Ultras and the variable refresh rate of
those displays the battery life numbers
should be better but we'll have to test
that ourselves of course what we can
test now though are the webcams Dell has
a new 1080p camera on their XPS line and
they say it is excellent and frankly the
one on the 15 is not hard to beat this
thing uh kind of sucks we're going to
move around right here it is grainy it
looks blown out and it also looks
underexposed at the same time it is just
a train wreck especially when you
compare it too oh my God it actually is
a good thing right here look at this I
can turn around
oh even right there it's figuring out
the exposure with this right here big
bright light my face still looks totally
fine I can spin around it was hot there
for a second but it has figured it out
dang you guys actually might have done
it look at that it is uh is it smoothing
or like I feel like it's doing a little
bit of filtering to my face but compared
to this hunka junk right here this is a
nice big old Improvement couple more
things here so the little capacitive
touch stuff up at the top apparently a
lot of people complained on the 13 plus
that uh this just stays on all the time
and it kind of sucks if you're watching
a movie or something like that so on the
new ones it just turns off after 10
seconds and you can choose if you want
that behavior or the old stuff in the
Bios also we have a co-pilot key right
here which I'm sure is going to age
excellently just like the big speak ke
did and finally the speakers so on all
of them we have two downfire firing
wolfers two little tweeters in the top 8
watts on the 14 10 watts on the 16 so
let's give them a little sniff oh also
the keyboard's great uh it's the same as
on the XPS 13 plus but a little bit
larger this is pre-production they don't
know if the software is actually good
yet I think that needs to go back in the
oven anyway yeah the the software for
the audio is not on there we will will
give them a break just like I'm going to
give you a break I hope that you guys
enjoyed this video hit like get
subscribed and just have a great old day
all dead because they've got a whole new
lineup here this right here is the XPS
14 the 13 now we already have the 13
plus but it's called a